♪ [music] ♪
In this video, we're going to finally
work on our actual single store layouts.
So, when you hit one of...
I'm on the answer right here,
but when you go to your list of stores
and you were to click on one of
the stores, there's a couple of things
going on here. First, we need to find
the actual store that has this slug,
and the next, what we need to do
is pull in the name of the store,
the photo of the store, we need to create
a map of the store, we need to show the
address, a description, a list of tags.
And then eventually what we're going to do
is, we're going to be getting into either
showing a login form if the user is logged
in, or if they're logged out, it
tells them to log in to review.
And then it will show a list of all the
possible reviews. So, a lot going on here,
let's jump into it. If you're sort of
feeling comfortable, with this whole make
a route, make a controller, then the
controller will query the database,
get some data, and then pass it to a
template to render, maybe I would suggest
like pausing the video right here and try
to do this piece on your own.
So, let's click on one of these, and of
course we're going to get a 404 because we
do not have a route set up for that. So,
it says butcher-and-the-vegan.
Now, what we're going to do is go into our
routes file, index .js, and first set up
the route for that. So, I'm going to go
down here, say, router.get('/store/ and
we're going to call that a slug.
And when that happens,
we are going to run and we'll just say
catchErrors(storeController.
getStoreBySlug)). Good.
Then we'll go into our storeController,
and we'll go to the bottom here,
and we'll make a new one, say
exports.getStorebySlug. We're going to
make it async because we're going
to be creating the database.
Request and we have our
response, and we're up and running.
So, again, let's always just test that it
actually works. res.send('it works!'),
refresh, good. So, we are hitting
this URL and we say that it
actually works. So, first thing that we
need to do is query the database for that
specific store. So let's say const store =
and then we will await Store.findOne
and now here, what is our
query going to look like?
Well, we only have one piece of data and
that is the actual slug, right?
We don't have the ID of the store,
we only have a slug. So, we need to do a
lookup at our database for a store where
the slug field is set to this.
So, we'll say the slug is set to,
and now how do I access the actual
parameters? Well, again, if I were to
comment this out, we could
res.json(req.params).
And then req.params is going to just be
an object full of all the data that
is in the URL that we've set out
to. So, it's a slug, why? Because
we put a slug in our URL here,
and that will give it to us. So, we can
go back to here. Slug is equal to
req.params.slug. Then when we have
that actual store, what we're going to do
is give ourselves, and we're going to say
res.json(store). Let's just double check
that we have that data coming back. Good.
So, we have all of the data that we know
that our query is actually working.
However, what happens if we hit a URL that
doesn't exist? Veganx. Then we get null.
So, it actually still does work when you
give it the wrong URL. But ideally what
would happen, is that we would show a 404
because that's not actually a page
that exists. So, in our case,
we need to handle this ourselves because
if a store, if a query in MongoDB does not
find anything, that's not necessarily an
error, it's just a query that returns
null. So, we need to sort of check
ourselves, so we'll say if there is,
no store, then what we need to do is
return next. Or often you'll see just
someone call next and then type
return. So, those are both valid.
Often, you'll see people do it on one line
even without the if statements.
So, return next, like that. Those are all
three the same. So, what does that do?
Well, you tell me what next does. Well,
first of all, we actually have to pass
next here, but what does it actually do?
Well, next will assume that this is a
middleware and pass it along to the next
steps. So, again, I know you're probably
getting sick of me showing you this,
but I really want to drill this home.
If we go to our app.js, and we find our
routes, there we go, this is our routes
right here. And if it is not found, it's
just going to say, "All right well, next."
Move on to the next piece of
middleware, which is this notFound
handler. And that's going to kick in. So,
that's all we need to do in order to
render out a 404, give it a save. Now if I
refresh this page, we should see a 404
page because that store is not found,
but if I take the X off the URL,
we should actually get...or actually right
now we're not sending any sort of data but
we could say res.json(store),
and actually get the data for that
specific store. Good, so again, put an X
on the end, 404, go back to our real
store, and we see the actual data. Good.
That's what we want, and at this point
now, we don't want to just json
it back, we want to res.render it,
and we want to render out a store
template, which we'll make in a second.
And what is the data we need to pass?
Well, we need to pass the store: store,
which again, we can just do that with
store, and then we want to pass the title,
which is going to be the store.name
value that gets passed in. Good.
Now, we'll open up our views, and make a
new file and we'll call that store.pug,
and we will extends the layout.
We have a block of content
and inside of that let's
just do, right away,
let's just do an h2 tag that will
contain the store.name, just to
make sure that this is working.
So, refresh one of your pages,
there we go, Butcher and the Vegan, and
go back to stores, Click on Brew Bar.
So, now we know that our controller is
querying the database, getting a store
back and passing it along to store.pug.
So, now it's just a templating problem,
and if you want to try to match it to what
this looks like, feel free to go ahead.
Otherwise, let's work on this now.
So, we would need a
[inaudible] class of single,
and inside of that, we need a
single__hero, inside of that we need an
image with a class of single__image, with
a source of, need to use backticks here,
/uploads/ store.photo or we want to use
again, store.png. Let's see if this is
working now. Click on Brew Bar, beautiful,
see some burgs, click on the Coffe Shop,
which doesn't have one and it will
give us the default image. Good,
really happy with that. Then we need to go
underneath it, and give ourselves an h2,
the class of title, and title--single,
inside of that we want an a(href=
again we need to use backticks
whenever we do generated strings,
stores/ and we want to put a store.slug.
I know we link to ourselves but it's
generally good to do for SEO, and then
we'll put our store.name inside of it.
How we doing? Good, showing up.
Brew Bar, all of our CSS is kicking in.
Now, inside of or at the same level as
single, we want to put in some details.
So, not inside of single, as a sibling to
single, and so we have a single__details
and we also want to give it a class of
inner, which will just constrain the width
of it. We have an image with a class of
single__map, let's give that a save and
refresh. What needs to happen here is that
we need to get what's called a static map
with Google Maps. And how static maps
work, if I go here you'll notice that if I
click this, it's not actually like an
embedded Google map, there's no JavaScript
here, it's actually just an image tag. And
I can go ahead and inspect that,
and you can see the source of this map is
googleapi/map/staticmap/center, 43 -79,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah and it has
an API key and a marker in there.
So, if I go visit this URL here, you'll
see that this is just a static map that
I've created with a center, as well as you
can put a number of markers and set the
zoom on it in there. Now, there's a whole
lot that goes into making one of these
static maps, if we look at all the
params here. What do we have?
We've got center, we've got zoom, we've
got size, we've got our API key,
we've got markers, which is the lat and
lng, and we have a scale, which allows us
to do high DPI for retina-based devices.
So, rather than have to do all of that
generation right inside of our template,
we're going to use our template helpers,
just like we learned about in our earlier
video. So, if you open up helpers.js,
you'll see that we have a function here
called staticMap that takes in an array,
where the first thing is the lng
and the second thing is the lat.
Why? Because MongoDB will give it to us in
lng lat and then from that we use an
arrow function which will have an implicit
return. And again, if you are a little bit
confused by what all this is, definitely
check out my ES6 For Everyone at es6.io
that will clear all of this syntax up for
you. So, https:, google.maps blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah, center= lat lng.
Why? Because MongoDB is lng, lat,
but Google Maps is lat lng. Then you
want a zoom, hardcoded 14,
size, hardcoded key=process.env. MAP_KEY.
So where is that coming from?
Well, go to your variables.env.
MAP_key, that's going in there.
So, if you want to sign up for your own
Google Maps key, you pop that in there and
it will automatically be replaced.
I never like to put any sort of API key
hardcoded into template files because
it's inevitably going to change and you're
going to have a couple of issues when you
work with that. Then we have a markers,
and the markers is going to be
exactly at the lat and lng as well,
so it's going to be exactly at center,
wherever it is. And scale is set to 2.
So, we have this little helper file here
where you pass in the lng and the lat,
and then it will return to us this very
long string, which will give us this
hardcoded value. So we can say
src= and we simply just said
h, helpers, .staticMap, and you pass
it the array of coordinates, which is
available to us at
store.location.coordinates. And again, if
you're having trouble like visualizing
what is the data available to us,
you can always do a
pre=h.dump(store), just to
see what available data is to you.
So, now if I give this page a refresh,
now we see the actual map, the pin, I got
my dump showing up, I can remove that,
and everything is working out for me.
Good. Let's keep going. We got a paragraph
of class of single__location.
Inside of that we need to put our
store.location.address, there we go.
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, working well.
Then we need to show some tags inside of
that. So we'll say if there is store.tags
so if there are tags, because otherwise
we don't want an empty tags list.
On our list the class of tags, and
then we want to loop over each of the
store tags in there so we use each tag in
store.tags. So, store.tags is going to be
our array. Tag is going to be each
singular one, whatever it's called on each
iteration. We have a list item with a
class of tag, inside of that we have a
link with a class of tag__link,
which is the href is going to set to again
backticks because we're generating the URL
here. Tags/ and then we'll use our
tag value there. And then, finally,
inside of that, we have a span with a
class of tag__text and that will be just
a tag value or it can be something
like that. So, let's refresh that.
Beautiful. Family friendly, licensed. What
you could do with this is, if you wanted
to add something around
it like parentheses,
the parentheses would show up.
Or if you wanted to make it
look like a hashtag, you could
put another # in front of it,
and it would say #Family Friendly
#Licensed. So, that's the beauty of using
this layout here. So, that's the base
layout for everything that we've got here.
Actually one thing we forgot was the
description, and that will go right
underneath the location. So just say
p=store.description and that gets
popped in. Obviously, those descriptions
are going to be a little bit longer.
So, that's it for now on this single page.
We're going to come back once we have our
login and register working and actually
hook up some reviews, the ability to
review as well as displaying past reviews.
♪ [music] ♪